[Alarm Horn]
Oh no,
no, no!
Oh my god!
Please God no!
Oh please God help me!
[Alarm bell]
So yeah unfortunately I've had one of my
hard drives
fail on me although thankfully it's not
as bad as that scene will lead you to
believe
but yeah let's go through what happened
so
this here is my home server it served me
pretty well i
made it back in 2017 and here's all the
parts that are inside it
at the end of the day this thing's
pretty much just a glorified file server
although it does a couple other things
like collect data from sensors and stuff
so all this hardware is
probably a bit excessive but it gets the
job done and is reasonably power
efficient.
Probably the most important part about
this
file server is the there's a minimal
amount of jank
i mean there's a little bit of jank...
...fair bit of jank, um like this chipset here
i don't know what gigabyte was thinking
but this is a piss weak heatsink so i
have to glue on some extra heatsinks
and uh the hard drives in it i mean uh
yeah so it's not like i haven't been
warned before don't use consumer grade
hard drives in your file server
especially when it's on 24/7 and doing a
reasonable amount of work
so yeah i went and bought four consumer
grade hard drives from seagate and they
rated 2,400 hours a year and 55 TB a year
and of course over the past three years
i've put about
27,000 hours on them which is 24/7 as well as
5.3 PiB of reads [and writes]
yeah i
don't think my warranty is valid anymore
but i mean hey what's what's the worst that can happen?
So on the first of every month i
do a scrub on my zfs array and
i was just minding my own business and
[Metal Gear Solid 'Alert']
yeah drive 'A' has 19 read errors
and it's faulted out of the array and i
don't have any more parody left
fantastic although this isn't too bad
because
previously i have had similar problems
with zfs
either due to it correcting a checksum
uh which probably caused by bit rot or
more serious problems that ended up
being caused by
vibrations
The vibration, there was a vibration
probably because i didn't have the hard
drive screwed in properly and probably
more likely because i
bought consumer grade hard drives
although
looking here at the uh historical
monitoring statistics
we see here that the hard drive has
actually got eight pending sectors
and this happened a couple days ago
so this uh certainly isn't sort of the
situation we had before
and if we take a closer look at the uh
raw smart statistics
we can see here that there's some seek
error rate problems we have some
uncorrectable errors
the command timeout is insane we have
some high fly rights which are certainly
not good
and um yeah these pending sectors
although
they're not reallocated sectors yet and
to make doubly sure i took the hard
drive out and put it into my windows
machine
to check it with CrystalDiskInfo
because smart statistics are always a
pain to interpret
and it was telling me pretty much
exactly the same thing hard drive have
bad day
back up now and that's exactly what i
did
and rather amusingly you can see here on
my network activity
the two days i spent desperately
transferring data off the server onto
my offsite backup hard drives and after
those two days once i knew my
data was safe on the 3rd i decided to
run a zfs scrub to see whether or not
that would fix the problem i don't know
maybe maybe something weird happened
and uh it corrected 10 checksum errors
it's quite good it didn't have any more
read errors
but yeah the number of
pending sectors kind of went up a little
bit never a good sign
and those smart statistics they they
weren't looking too high either they're
kind of getting a bit worse
so um maybe i should uh check
all of the sectors on this hard drive
properly
and so i ran bad blocks in the
non-destructive mode
not the default read only the
non-destructive
read write test and yeah it
returned 14 read errors
certainly not a good sign but even worse
the number of pending sectors
skyrocketed to 121 and so after that
i did a short and a long SMART self test
on the drive and both of them failed
with read errors
yeah this this hard drive is screwed so
uh time to go to the local computer
store and buy a new hard drive
and uh oh, this product is unavailable,
this product has been discontinued,
this product is no longer available,
brilliant what am i meant to do now i
i need the
the same hard drive to put in the array
i can't i can't get a
5,000 rpm drive and whack it in there
it's it's going to be a big mess
i mean newegg does have it in stock in
the united states
it's only AU$136 (Dollarydoos) but
do i trust international shipping of a
hard drive? Noooo.
So i mean hey let's have a look at
this uh hard drive again it's it doesn't
sound like it's a rock tumbler
yet and it hasn't actually reallocated
any sectors it's just marked them as
pending
one thing that i noticed is that i could
quite perfectly fine
read the sectors that were supposedly
bad and they didn't give any errors they
were still there
they still had the data and reading them
several times didn't reallocate the
sector
so maybe we can recover it maybe there's
been some sort of weird situation where
maybe one of the tracks has
had a bit of a vibration problem and
gone over a different track or something
weird a little bit and
i don't know so i decided to completely
reformat the hard drive which oh my god
that was
that has to be one of the most difficult
confirmation windows i had to okay
oh oh no i don't don't want to press
that button oh
oh my data but i i did manage to get
enough courage to press that button
and uh several hours later after it had
completely
rewritten the hard drive with zeros all
of the bad sectors were gone
no more pending sectors and i mean i was
expecting it to reallocate the sectors
but they were completely gone but hey i
don't really know
how it handles reformatting it it could
have been a false flag and the
bad sectors were still there it just
didn't flag them anymore
so i ran bad blocks again but this time
in the read-only mode so it would be
faster
and that returned zero errors which was
quite a surprise
so evidently in this situation we didn't
have any read errors
and so i decided to test with the
destructive bad blocks mode
where it writes four different test
patterns and
it worked perfectly so that's a surprise
maybe this really was just some sort of
one-time
random problem that the drive
encountered and reformatting it has
fixed it
and throughout all of those tests the
current pending sector count never went
up
and nor did the reallocated sectors
so i thought hey let's uh let's put it
back in the array see if it'll work...
Oh corrupted data! oh oh no.... okay
okay when you put it back in the array
and you've erased the data
it says corrupted data because there's
no data there
that the pool's still okay that that
gave me a bit of a fright when i first
saw that
but hey eight and a half hours later the
drive was successfully re-silvered
no errors went over those sectors
perfectly fine
no problem and i let it do its thing for
five days normal operation and then on
the 15th i did another scrub
took five and a half hours perfectly
normal
and again no problem i think we fixed it
so i think we can safely say that
there's absolutely no consequence to
buying consumer grade hard drives and
putting it in your
24/7 server and i mean if you if you've
got
problems with your pending sectors you
just reformat the hard drive
everything's good again i think we've
solved it
Ah come on! Ah why is it gotta read error
it was working fine just before.
Ah! And the f...
pending sectors are back again although...
bad this time that's not as bad but
ah it's still screwed yeah um
yeah maybe i should buy some new hard
drives although and
i don't know should i import new hard
drive or
just completely throw pool in the bin
and actually properly buy
some enterprise grade hard drives i
think i might go that route
there might be a part two to this video
i don't know when i decide not to be
lazy and actually fix the problem
yeah but for now don't do what i did
buy hard drives that are rated for 24/7
operation
and uh yeah expect them to be
discontinued
and maybe having two parody drives is
actually a good idea because turns out
hard drives don't just
magically instantly fail they kinda
screw around with you for a while.
So as always thanks for watching